welcome everyone to this week's I
believe weekly thing it is September the
30th 2008 19 I believe and yeah as every
week we sync stuff between team members
and if there's any other Jen Islands we
just go through the minute discuss them
but we start with coming what we did
last week so I start with myself and I
am worked mostly on the like zebra stuff
for us lamb there is prototype for it
which is linked in the notes and but it
needs a special version of the sieve of
Arzo which probably won't be merged
upstream so it's just yes I said a
prototype and why this this way can be
read in an exploration report I wrote
and have also the quest linked to the
notes and it's so the short version is
that I'm surveying the major library in
rust that has the civilization II
civilization doesn't support eggs but
that's something we need for the
Seabourn coding stuff and therefore you
need to heck it into the library itself
which is a good solution so I will try
next to convince the people from Shirley
to actually implement tech support and
we'll see how this goes yeah that's all
I have
next one is Eric
well I've been having a ball lately
mostly miss trying to figure out could
you natively typed pleasant to use
builders for IP OB nodes that have been
made by code gen which is itself a
mouthful and trying to figure out how
those should look and how they can be
both correct and good performance and
feel good holistically like be organic
is there's really turning out to be a
noodle maker it is I think some of the
territory that we are probing with this
is legitimately really uncharted I've
been comparing to lots of other systems
that do some kind of Cochin in go and
lots of things use pointers to represent
optionality which is one of the few
tricks that you can possibly use within
the limitations of go syntax that
everybody is going to at least recognize
but it's also really Genki it's not
correct to our model the ergonomics are
surprisingly not great and the
performance is also now that I've been
looking at it in detail not great if you
have to always have something that's
going to almost certainly turn into a
heap allocation every time you want an
optional field that's just like
concretely really bad it turns out some
of my first drafts of different ways we
can go there patterns I was trying to
figure out oh if I do a struct literal
here versus functions here is the
function overhead going to be like
really bad and painful
turns out no is actually totally
irrelevant like nanoseconds that can be
disregarded compared to the cost of
creating a bunch of pointers that fail
escape analysis and cost keep
allocations represent optionals that are
present that's actually the dominant
cost of the system that I've tried so
far or cosmic so that's kind of a wild
like that just blew my
because this is all the other things out
there doing like if you use the Cochin
for protobuf and go it spits out things
where it uses tons of pointers because
like an optional integer field it turns
into a pointer to an integer
I've actually staggered that this is how
the world works so my guess would be
that they're prioritizing economics over
the horns the thing is the ergonomics
also completely suck though if you want
to get yeah I mean sorry they do like if
you want to get a pointer to an integer
and go you have to write yourself a
helper function basically because you
have to put it somewhere in some names
variable in order to take an address so
you can't just put an ampersand in front
of the number one that doesn't compile
so so it's just it's all bad so I think
my desires are like up here and what's
physically possible is probably
somewhere way below that and it's just
I'm still trying to convince myself to
settle so there's a gif that has a bunch
of those options explored at least it's
a little bit which most of you have
probably already seen the performance is
really interesting and so out of all
this I still don't have a final solution
but it's questions are getting asked and
answered so it's getting closer I hope I
would really like to do something that
is more ergonomic than what it seems to
be centering it around but my hopes and
dreams are probably for a barrier that's
impossible I've been thinking fondly of
Ruby syntax lately which if you know me
and my opinions about brother million
which is quite a statement
but yeah Ruby syntax we don't have it
and go what can I say moving on
hopefully something will come to a
concrete resolution on this in the next
week cool things for the update next one
is rod so I did a little bit of scheme
of stuff last week not much and I spent
a lot more of last week going into far
coin and trying to figure out how it's
using IPL D and it's blocking Cody
oh that's off interesting I'll say that
it's interesting so I don't know yeah I
don't feel like I've had the most
productive week like producing things
I've also had I mean I've been dealing
with neck neck and back problems for
four months now not a particularly bad
week last week so that's impacted my
productivity so not not that happy about
how much I've got done so I have been a
week this week that's me alright so next
one is then obviously Michael yeah yeah
I mean I was off for three days last
week so not a ton yeah so a few things
we need to set the SSD feedback um this
week so there's a Google Doc that I
think y'all are added to need to figure
that out and get that sent over to them
soon okay here we go I had the few days
that I was on I got caught up doing a
lot of metric stuff so not as much I
feel he's working I wanted to get done I
did have enough time to work on UNIX
closely to to recognize that schema gent
has to be it it was a quick hack it
turned into a bigger hack and a bigger
hack and a bigger hack and now it's it's
really starting to show
so there's just a much better approach
that the whole thing can take in a much
cleaner one it just needs to happen so
that's gonna be a few days of my time
just kind of finish it again we'll be
here to do and just go like okay so and
we need a couple days to read it but
that's like a few days where I'm not
making progress on anything else and
yeah that's that's all that I have for
my updates just as a discussion topic
though I like us to talk about
documentation in particular we we really
just don't even have Docs right now we
don't have anything that I would like
call Docs and it's unclear where that
should go like there's an empty docs
repo that I deleted there's a book that
has like a half of a page in it but
there's a website that is wildly out of
date we we need to kind of pick where
documentation should go in q1 of next
year we'll probably do like a bigger
push on writing it but I don't want to
stop anybody from writing documentation
this quarter if it's something that you
feel like you want to do or you know we
we end up talking with somebody you know
like I'd really like this thing to be
documented better before I talk to this
person that I can point to something I
wants to figure out where that should go
now so that people want to do it in this
corner they can and they are blocked on
it so yeah I think my preference at this
point because we have basically nothing
there's to try and put stuff into the
book so that we can at least keep in
mind some kind of linear narrative for
people learning this stack rather than
just a hodgepodge of a bunch of pages on
things but open to other people's
suggestions people don't have strong
opinions about Docs really this is the
only good for programmer if it doesn't
have a pane into that dot oh no it's
just a hard one
the problem with investing in the book
is because it's
separate from everything else and
everything feels so early that it might
be difficult to keep it in sync like
you're I can imagine getting out at a
sink within a week sort of depends right
I think I think the data model stable I
think like introduction that data
structure stuff is pretty stable I don't
think that we should start covering many
API yet like actual language API in like
another few weeks
I didn't schema syntax will be stable
enough that we can start doing it but we
wouldn't be I know that we have a few
additions landing pretty soon maybe a
couple small changes but schemas seem
pretty stable we could definitely start
documenting how to write
we could also document that English
makes repo its user facing Docs are a
little different but having two separate
repos for it seems like there's only
four humans in this chat right now right
like we can't if we try to split our
attention between an excessively large
number of repos we just LD repo right
now and the specs repo the ones that you
already deleted but even those two are
we paying attention to both of them no
well yeah I don't know no well did we
throw any more I mean other than having
just like a landing repo I don't think
that we really use it um
yeah everything went in specs no I think
like look I don't want to change the
coordination point for us or frankly for
other implementers
so the specs remote will remain the
place where we document things for other
implementers and we definitely should
not jump to writing user-facing docs for
something that we don't even have
documented for the implementers this
whole conversation is about
documentation for people outside of it
for people that would want to
just use something so if somebody wants
to use schemas and not be implementing
schema like generation libraries of
parsers this would be a resource for
them and I definitely don't want that to
go into the spectral book I do want to
maintain that separation but yes nobody
should take on doing this unless they
have a clear reason like they're they're
literally working with somebody to to
adopt an assertion to make that sure I
agreed to this separate repository but
currently there is basically as I said
there's not that much to put in there
because I Curley actually certainly not
end-user facing because like well you
there's no implementation for you like
for most of the stuff there's no
implementation so at the moment you I
mean you can use the own stuff yeah so
it depends on who we mean by like the
audience for this is very broad right so
like we could write better documentation
for the file Korn coin folks who are
using schemas right now and keep adding
features that don't map with our thing
because we don't have our thing
documented for them we have it
documented for implementers we you know
like we've been talking to you through
them folks a bit if we want to do a
bigger if they seem open to actually
adopting some of the stuff and if you're
in them you would want to produce better
documentation for them as well along
similar lines
yeah I agree that like the things that
don't have the implementations we should
not try to document just basing more
about the the like the point would be
mostly about the general concepts more
or less because this is basically what
we have and what is agreed upon yes so
like our whole way of thinking about
building data structures and that field
E is not really documented in in a way
that somebody could understand like it
you know we have some documents in this
factory poem that outlines and vision
stuff and some other sort of guardrails
but like unless you've been but us for a
long time you don't really understand
that like that's where we reckon style
with like you know Stephen like which
direction that things are going in right
it's
like something with President to
somebody who could not done this before
and I think our conversations with the
etherion folks had made it like really
clear that you know we've established a
lot of terminology and an approach to
the thinner structuring there just isn't
and and that that could be documented
today right like that's not that's not a
feature that hasn't landed or something
right like the difference between nodes
and blocks and our you know the way to
address things the way that we you know
do the way we handle compatibility
between different block formats using
see ideas like this is all stuff that
can be documented that it's just not
clear to anyone outside of this group so
if we expect people to adopt it or
understand it we believe the
documentation and I think that this is
becoming a bigger problem not not just
with external folks like aetherium but
even with people over on file coin like
their their heads down doing final coin
they're not like you know up to date on
our terminology and data model and I
think one of the highest value ads that
we could get would be like focusing on a
one-pager approximately amount of
content that's just intentionally an
introductory like narrative structure
and goes over a bunch of those things
you just enumerated and just has like
maybe a sentence for each of the things
is like you know I appeal D we have this
concept space it's for handling this
task if you're interested in this user
story start here and like just like a
very small grabbing information like
that hmm and then just dump people back
to spec's after that yeah that's not the
complete documentation story well in the
long run but it just having that sort of
table of contents that's focused on user
stories would be a huge step forward I
think okay I think that's also somewhat
an endorsement of the book format as
well then because I would want that to
be Leia laid out more leniently like you
you want to understand this before you
understand that kind of I would so my
own vacation at the moment is for a page
though so they could both format 0 yeah
well I mean
the book yeah in the book repo we can
bait we can have a one-pager that is the
sort of introduction and then lays out
the linear structure and right now
that'll just link to a bunch of stacks
but at some point in time it would link
to pages within the book and and we're
not gonna replace those all at once too
so it would be nice to have that linear
structure to kind of know what chapters
need to go in but while we don't have
them here's a link to the specs all
right well just put that in the
subfolder in this packs repo for now
until we have more concept like well
we've got way more content than new repo
fine but well we've got relatively
little I'd rather have it in a single
repo so it's that much easier to write a
link checker against all right it's like
link coherency in the CI if you've got
two repos it's a bad place I don't know
I'm I'm pretty torn on this I've just
had quite a few times lately where I've
improved something in the specs repo and
that information did not make it beyond
the floor of us so in some ways that is
like where this information goes to die
if we're talking about why the messaging
is anyone gonna read that book though
it's the same thing yeah I mean at least
we have a thing to point people at like
it we do not currently have a great
landing page to pointy black um the
website is not really in line with our
recent work even the IPO the landing
page is a pretty out of date
um and so we're willing to put any
enough time to replace all of those
resources we can't completely swap them
out but it would be nice to at least be
working towards that and if if we start
with just a single page or something
wouldn't it perhaps even make sense too
busy make this that kind of like their
website just think think corrupted is
just like wrong like it's just like if
people took the website that's not what
actually is
I feel like the website should be
renamed to multi formats that I feel
need on Io because it does describe more
people in this pretty well in the
context of IP LD because obviously
people would go like if people want to
get like like universe the book they
will go to the website obviously I mean
the the normal entry point is the
website I would say and then yeah this
fight okay yeah that's the sort of
interest to me because they get
something will be different so let me
kind of recalibrate let me kind of
because we yeah a lot of this stuff
needs to get fixed I'm targeting kind of
next year to fix most of it what I want
to do is like if in the next three
months we need to write one of these
pages for a reason that it goes
somewhere that is actually working
towards the solution of these larger
problems rather than contributing to
that's that's my main goal like I don't
think that we're gonna have anything
that anybody's gonna see that we don't
just typically link them to that said
that link should point them to a thing
that we want to continue linking them to
not to a thing that we're gonna move
yeah but I get like I would say that's
that's not gonna work anyway so if I
write a page about I don't know about
selectors for song because this is what
I could work on I would put it somewhere
in the book repository perhaps but we
surely find out that this is not the
right place for this thing so I don't
know in fact if but anyway like I'm
totally over so I don't care if the repo
service called talk or if it's called
book whatever I think that guy would go
in the spectra but for now there's a
decision problem you know I think maybe
I think maybe um
something along the lines of Eric's
suggestion of like we're investing a lot
in the specs repo we're putting a lot of
stuff in there and and we are trying to
improve the even the user facing nature
of a lot of the docks but it's not
discoverable it's not something people
are going to go digging through so
having something that it serves as a
jumping-off point for more detail on
things that could potentially be
expanded over time but but you know if
we work on something that is probably
more than a page but you know describes
what I appeal to here is some of the
philosophy behind it but it goes into a
little bit of detail about each of these
things and says if you want more
information then you should go this
place and look at the resource and then
and then we know we've got one place to
have detail and we'd have to do the
deduplication if it I just I mean I I
like the idea of better docks really do
but I don't I don't see how we can keep
something that's verbose updated as
we're changing stuff in in multiple
locations it's just gonna get I think
really quickly yeah maybe in a year
we'll be back doing this again saying ah
we need to do it we need to do a week
long dive into our docks and get them
updated again okay maybe the thing to do
here is to just do it in the specs repo
but make each of these a readme so like
the thing about how to write schemas is
just the readme in the scheme this
directory the thing about how to read
selector for the idea behind selector so
that the readme in the selectors
directory and then we can just we can
differentiate for now between all
user-facing stuff and whorin implement
or focus stuff just based on if it's a
readme or not
okay let's do that and then we'll get
more content and then once we once we
have more together we'll decide what we
want to do okay cool all right sounds
good good decision
we have one more minute anything else
look at cool cool cool then I will end
this meeting on time and thus